## Namaste React

# Chapter 02 - Igniting our App

## Q: What is `git` and `github` ?

A: `Git` is a free, open-source software distributed version control system (`DVCS`) designed to manage all source code history. It can keep a history of commits, can reverse changes, and lets developers share code. Each developer must have Git installed on his or her local device to collaborate. on the other hand `github` is a web-based hosting service for Git repositories. It offers all of Git’s `DVCS SCM` and has some additional features. This includes collaboration functionality like project management, support ticket management, and bug tracking. With GitHub, developers can share their repositories, access other developers’ repositories, and store remote copies of repositories to serve as backups.

## Q: What is NPM ?

A: It is a tool used for package management and the default package manager for Node projects. NPM is installed when NodeJS is installed on a machine. It comes with a command-line interface (CLI) used to interact with the online database of NPM. This database is called the NPM Registry, and it hosts public and private 'packages.' To add or update packages, we use the NPM CLI to interact with this database.

- `npm` alternative is `yarn`

## Q: How to initialize `npm`?

A: `npm init`

## Q: What is `package.json` ?

A: It typically contains information about the project such as its name, version, author, and license. It also lists the project's dependencies on other Node.js packages, along with their version numbers, so that these dependencies can be automatically installed when the project is set up or updated

## Q: What is package-lock.json ?

A: `package-lock.json` is a file that is automatically generated by npm when a package is installed.It records the exact version of every installed dependency, including its sub-dependencies and their version.

The purpose of `package-lock.json` is to ensure that the same dependencies are installed consistently across different environments, such as development and production environments.

## Q: What is `^(Caret)` and `~(Tilde)` ?

A: `(^)` notation is used to automatically update minor releases and patch releases, but not a major release when updating our package..

`(~)` notation indicated that we can accept only a patch release when updating our package

## Q: What is Parcel/webpack and why do we need it ?

A: Parcel/webpack is type of web application bundler, A bundler that puts our code and all it's dependecies together in one single `Javascript` file.
Parcel can take any type of file as an entry point, but an HTML or JavaScript file is a good place to start.

### Parcel Features:

- HMR - Hot Module Replacement
- File watcher algorithm - made with C++
- Minification
- Cleaning our code
- DEV and production Build
- Super fast building algorithm
- Caching while development
- Image optimization
- Compresses
- Compatible with older version of browser
- HTTPS in dev
- Port Number
- Consistent hashing algorithm
- Zero Configuration
- Automatic code splitting
- Tree Shaking - remove unused code.

## Q: What is node_modules ? Is it a good idea to push that on git?

A: It's a just a directory created by `NPM`, when we npm install dependency they are downloaded and will copied inside the `node_modules` folder.

Don't push `node_modules` in github because it contains lots of files(more than 100 MB), it will cost you memory space.

## Q: What is transitive dependencies ?

A: A package which is dependent on other package and that package is dependent to others and so on.. , this is known as transitive dependencies.

## Q: Whats is difference between dependencies and dev dependencies ?

`Dependency` object species the packages that need to run your project for example vue, angular, ract, firebase etc.
Where `devDependencies` are those packages in the package.json file that you need only for project development purposes

## Q: What is `.gitignore` ?

A: `.gitignore` is a text file, which tells to git which file or folder to ignore and that files/folder will not get commited on git repository.

The entries in this file can also follow a matching pattern.

```
* is used as a wildcard match
/ is used to ignore pathnames relative to the .gitignore file
# is used to add comments to a .gitignore file
```

Following are an example of what the `.gitignore` file could look like:

```
# Ignore Mac system files
.DS_store

# Ignore node_modules folder
node_modules

# Ignore all text files
*.txt

# Ignore files related to API keys
.env

# Ignore SASS config files
.sass-cache
```

## Q: For what reason we don't commit our node_modules folder ?

A: The reason is with help of `package.json` and `package-lock.json` we can install it in our system by running the command `npm i` / `npm install`.

## Q: What is `npx` ?

A: `npx` is a tool that is used to execute the packages. It comes with the npm, when you installed npm above `5.2.0` version then automatically `npx` will installed. It is an npm package runner that can execute any package that you want from the npm registry without even installing that package.

## Q: What is `.parcel-cache` ?

A: `.parcel-cache` is used by parcel(bundler) to reduce the building time. It stores information about your project when parcel builds it, so that when it rebuilds, it doesn't have to re-parse and re-analyze everything from scratch. It's a key reason why parcel can be so fast in development mode.

## Q: What is Tree Shaking ?

A: `Tree shaking `is process of removing the unwanted code that we do not use while developing the application. In computing, tree shaking is a dead code elimination technique that is applied when optimizing code.

## Q: List down your favorite 5 superpowers of Parcel and describe any 3 of them in your own words.

A: 5 superpowers of Parcel:

- HMR (Hot Module Replacement) - adds, or removes modules while an application is running, without a full reload.
- File watcher algorithm - File Watchers monitor directories on the file system and perform specific actions when desired files appear.
- Minification - Minification is the process of minimizing code and markup in your web pages and script files.
- Image optimization
- Caching while development

## Q: What is Hot Module Replacement ?

A: Hot Module Replacement (HMR) exchanges, adds, or removes modules while an application is running, without a full reload. This can significantly speed up development in a few ways: Retain application state which is lost during a full reload.

## Q: What is the dist folder ?

A: The `/dist` folder contains the minimized version of the source code. The code present in the `/dist` folder is actually the code which is used on production web applications.

## Q: What is browserslist?

A: `Browserslist` is a tool that allows specifying which browsers should be supported for your app by specifying "queries" in a config(`package.json`) file.

## References:

https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-git-and-github/

https://www.atatus.com/blog/package-json-vs-package-lock-json/

https://parceljs.org/

https://browserslist.dev/?q=bGFzdCAyIHZlcnNpb25z
